Overnight Gingerbread Cinnamon Rolls

By halfbakedharvest
Course: breakfast
Cuisine: american
Keyword: cinnamon roll, festive food, gingerbread
These rolls are super moist, buttery, sweet, gooey and all things incredible. I really could not think of a better family holiday breakfast.
 prep time 30 minutes
 cook time 25 minutes
 total time 55 minutes
 servings 12 cinnamon rolls
 calories 392 kcal

INGREDIENTS
2.25 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 tablespoon brown sugar
.75 cup warm whole milk
4 tablespoons Land O Lakes(R) Butter, melted
1 egg
.33 cup molasses
3 cups all-purpose flour
.25 teaspoon kosher salt

FILLING
6 tablespoons Land O Lakes(R) Butter, at room temperature
.25 cup granulated sugar
.25 cup brown sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
.25 teaspoon fresh ground nutmeg OR ground cloves (use your favorite or both)

FROSTING
4 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
4 tablespoons Land O Lakes(R) Butter, at room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract or the seeds from 1/2 a vanilla bean

INSTRUCTIONS:
   1. 1. Place the yeast and brown sugar into a stand mixer with the dough hook attached. Add the warm milk and gently stir. Let sit until it is puffed and foamy on top, about 10 minutes. To the bowl add the melted butter, egg, and molasses, stir to combine. Add in the flour and salt. Knead the dough with the dough hook until the dough is smooth and forms a ball, about 5 minutes. Remove the dough from the bowl. Oil the bowl or use cooking spray to coat. Place the dough back into the bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let the dough rise in a warm area for about 1 hour or until doubled in size.
2. Make the filling. Add the sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg to a new bowl and mix well.
3. Generously grease a 9x13 inch baking dish or a dish slightly smaller with butter.
4. Lightly dust a surface with flour. Roll the dough into a rectangle (about 9x24 inches). Spread the butter evenly over the dough. Sprinkle the cinnamon/ginger sugar evenly over the butter and lightly push the mix into the butter. Starting with the long edge closest to you, carefully roll the dough into a log, keeping it fairly tight as you go. When you reach the edge, pinch along the edge to seal. Using a sharp knife, cut into 10-12 rolls. Place rolls in the prepared baking dish. Cover with plastic wrap and transfer to the fridge to rise overnight. 
5. In the morning, remove the rolls from the fridge and allow them to come to room temp while the oven preheats, about 30-45 minutes. Preheat oven to 350. Bake the rolls for 25 minutes or until golden brown.
6. In a medium bowl, beat together the cream cheese and butter until fluffy. Add the powdered sugar and beat until combined. Beat in vanilla. Spread the frosting on warm rolls. EAT!

