Italian Roasted Cauliflower Salad
6
Kosher Key: Pareve

Cook Time: 30 Minutes
Total Time: 35 Minutes

INGREDIENTS
1 large head (3 lbs) cauliflower
1/4 cup olive oil, divided
2 cloves garlic, minced
1/4 cup chopped flat leaf parsley
16 pitted Gaeta or Kalamata olives, chopped
3 tbsp capers
1 1/2 tbsp fresh lemon juice
1/4 tsp red pepper flakes, or more to taste
Salt and pepper to taste

Place a rack in the center of your oven and preheat to 425 degrees F.
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil for easier cleanup, if desired.
Pull the leaves off of the cauliflower base. Cut off the lower part of the
stem.
Cut the head of cauliflower into four quarters.
Slice each quarter into 6­8 pieces. You want as many flat surfaces as
possible on each floret­­ the flat surfaces caramelize best.
Caramelization is the key to giving the roasted cauliflower flavor­­
those golden, sugary juices take this veggie from good to amazing.
Give all the florets a thorough rinse in a colander. Shake them dry.
Place the florets in a large bowl and drizzle them with 1 tbsp olive oil.
Add the minced garlic florets to the bowl. Toss the cauliflower florets till
they're coated with olive oil and minced garlic.
Spread the florets out in an even layer on the baking sheet. Reserve
any small bits of cauliflower that have fallen away from the florets in a
small bowl. Sprinkle the cauliflower florets lightly with pepper.
Place the baking sheet into the preheated oven and let the cauliflower
roast for 10 minutes. While cauliflower is roasting, prep your other
ingredients­­ chop the parsley, juice the lemon, etc.
After 10 minutes, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Use tongs to
turn over the florets, making sure that the florets with flat surfaces are
pressed directly against the baking sheet. This will enhance
caramelization. Sprinkle the reserved cauliflower bits onto the baking
sheet. Return the baking sheet to the oven. Let the cauliflower roast for
10­20 minutes longer till tender. When it's ready you will be able to
pierce it easily with a fork.

Remove the cauliflower from the oven. Spread it out on a large plate or
platter and allow to cool.
Throw the room temperature cauliflower into a salad bowl along with
the remaining 3 tbsp of olive oil, parsley, chopped olives, capers,
lemon juice and red pepper flakes. The red pepper flakes are very
spicy, add with care.
Toss gently to combine all ingredients. Season with salt and pepper to
taste (I didn't add any salt because the olives and capers are salty, but
some might like a touch of salt added to this dish). You can also add
more olive oil to taste, if desired.
Serve salad at room temperature. Italians like to serve this salad with
warm freshly baked bread and copious amounts of olive oil. Served on
its own the way I've described here, it is gluten free, low carb, and
heart healthy.
Passover Note: If you're making this for Passover, note that it is difficult
to find capers with a kosher for Passover hechsher. If you're worried
about the hechsher, substitute 3 more tbsp of chopped olives for the
capers.

