Philly Cheesesteak Stuffed Peppers
Author: Annie Chesson
Prep time: 20 mins
Cook time: 1 hour 5 mins
Serves: 4 servings

Total time: 1 hour 25 mins

Ingredients
1.5 (ish) pound flank steak
2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon garlic powder
1 teaspoon onion powder
¼ teaspoon black pepper
4 green bell peppers
½ cup brown rice
1 tablespoon butter
½ onion, thinly sliced
8­10 slices provolone cheese
1 tablespoon mayonnaise

Instructions
1. Bring 1¼ cups of water to a boil in a small pot
2. When the water is boiling, add 1 tablespoon of butter, a little salt, and ½ cup brown rice
3. Cover and reduce heat to a simmer
4. Simmer for 45 minutes
5. When there is about 25 minutes left on your rice, season your flank steak with the salt, garlic powder, onion
powder, and pepper
6. Cook your steak until it is medium rare (we grilled ours, but you can cook it anyway you want ­ broiled, on a grill
pan inside, etc...)
7. Let the steak rest for about five minutes, and then slice it thinly at an angle against the grain
8. Chop the slices up into bite size pieces and place in a large bowl
9. Preheat your oven to 375 degrees
10. Meanwhile, slice the tops off the green peppers and remove the seeds and ribs so you are left with four empty
peppers
11. If any of the peppers wont stand up right, you may need to slice off a small bit from the bottom to make it even
12. Heat a large saute pan over medium high heat with a little olive oil
13. Add your onions along with a little salt and pepper and saute until golden brown and translucent
14. Remove the onions to the same bowl as the steak
15. When the rice is done cooking, drain it using a sieve to remove any extra water ­ press down against the rice
with the back of the spoon to get all the moisture out that you can
16. Add the rice into the bowl with the steak and onions
17. Break your provolone cheese up into pieces and add it to the steak mixture
18. Stir in the mayonnaise
19. If your mixture has cooled down and isn't warm enough to melt the cheese, add everything back into the saute
pan used to cook the onions
20. Warm the mixture over high heat for a few minutes until the cheese is melted and everything is evenly
combined
21. Taste and season if needed
22. Add the four peppers into a baking dish and spoon the mixture into them
23. Place in the oven and bake for 20 minutes
Recipe by The Garlic Diaries at http://www.thegarlicdiaries.com/philly­cheesesteak­stuffed­peppers/

