                   Butterscotch Gingerbread Pumpkin Trifle:
Ingredients:
Gingerbread Cookies
(1/2) c, butter
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
(1/4) c. molasses
2 t. baking soda
12 t. salt
1 t. cinnamon
(3/4) t. cloves & ginger
2 c. flour

Pudding layer
2 pkgs (3.4 of each) butterscotch instant pudding
4 cups milk
8 oz. cream cheese, softened well
1 (1/2) c. powdered sugar
(1/2) c. canned pumpkin
1 t. pumpkin pie spice

 Whipped Topping Layer
2 containers (8 oz. each) whipped topping, or real whipping cream



Instructions:
   1. For the cookies, preheat oven to 375 degrees.  In the bowl of an electric mixer, cream together butter, sugar, egg, and molasses.  In a separate bowl, stir together baking soda, salt, cinnamon, cloves, ginger and flour.  Add flour mixture to wet mixture and mix to incorporate.  Scoop or roll dough into 1 (1/2) " balls and place on nonstick baking mat or greased cookie sheet 2" apart.  Press dough balls down slightly with the palm of your hand.  Bake for approximately 6 minutes and no more than 7.  Don't overbake or they won't be soft.  Don't let the bottoms get too brown.  They should be a light golden brown.  Let cool slightly, and then remove to a cooling rack to cool completely.
   
   2. For the pudding layer, prepare butterscotch pudding by whisking both packets and 4 cups cold milk together in large bowl.  Place in the refrigerator until set.  While it's setting up, in the bowl of an electric mixer, cream together cream cheese, powdered sugar, pumpkin, and pumpkin pie spice until smooth and no lumps remain.  Stir in prepared butterscotch pudding buy hand.
   
   3. In a trifle bowl, crumble 7 gingerbread bookies onto the bottom.  Next, pour and spread the butterscotch sauce over.  Spread one tub of whipped topping over pudding layer. Repeat layers, crumbling 7 more cookies, and then spreading the remaining tub of whipped topping.  Crumble about 3 more coolies on top for garnish.  Refrigerate until ready to serve.  Best when enjoyed within 24 hours of making it.  
